README.md, before:

# Webinar deployment

## Before starting

### Pre-requisites

Before running this tutorial you will need:

1) A Kubernetes (K8S) cluster (you can get free credits to deploy a managed K8S cluster on AWS, GCP, Azure, etc)
2) Helm (and Tiller) installed on K8S
3) An `nginx-ingress` installation (using the Helm chart)
4) A `cert-manager` installation (using the Helm chart)
5) A domain name for your components (e.g. the Certificate Authority), connected to your `nginx-ingress` IP address - you can obtain one for free or $1.00 at many Domain Name Registrars.

#### NGINX Ingress controller

You can install the ingress controller by running this command:

    helm install stable/nginx-ingress -n nginx-ingress --namespace ingress-controller

#### Certificate manager

You can install the certificate manager, to ensure you can auto-generate the TLS certificates

    helm install stable/cert-manager -n cert-manager --namespace cert-manager

Then we need to add the Staging and Production cluster issuers

    kubectl create -f ./extra/certManagerCI_staging.yaml

    kubectl create -f ./extra/certManagerCI_production.yaml

### Customisation

Currently, the `helm_values` files for the CA reference the following CA Domain Name: `ca.lf.aidtech-test.xyz` in the files:

* `/helm_values/ca_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/ord1_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/ord2_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/peer1_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/peer2_values.yaml`

Since you won't have access to this, you should set this domain name to one you've obtained/purchased, and which is pointing to the `nginx-ingress` IP address.

## Creating

### Fabric CA

Install the PostgeSQL chart

    helm install stable/postgresql -n ca-pg --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/ca-pg_values.yaml

Install the Fabric CA chart (it automatically gets the login information from the PostgreSQL chart secret)

    helm install stable/hlf-ca -n ca --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/ca_values.yaml

Get pod for CA release

    CA_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-ca,release=ca" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

Check if server is ready

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $CA_POD | grep "Listening on"

Check that we don't have a certificate

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- cat /var/hyperledger/fabric-ca/msp/signcerts/cert.pem

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- bash -c 'fabric-ca-client enroll -d -u http://$CA_ADMIN:$CA_PASSWORD@$SERVICE_DNS:7054'

Check that ingress works correctly

    CA_INGRESS=$(kubectl get ingress -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-ca,release=ca" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].spec.rules[0].host}")

    curl https://$CA_INGRESS/cainfo

    FABRIC_CA_CLIENT_HOME=./config fabric-ca-client getcacert -u https://$CA_INGRESS -M ./AidTechMSP

Get identity of org-admin

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client identity list --id org-admin

Register Organisation admin if the previous command did not work

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client register --id.name org-admin --id.secret OrgAdm1nPW --id.attrs 'admin=true:ecert'

Enroll the Organisation Admin identity

    FABRIC_CA_CLIENT_HOME=./config fabric-ca-client enroll -u https://org-admin:OrgAdm1nPW@$CA_INGRESS -M ./AidTechMSP

Copy the signcerts to admincerts

    mkdir -p ./config/AidTechMSP/admincerts

    cp ./config/AidTechMSP/signcerts/* ./config/AidTechMSP/admincerts

Create a secret to hold the admincert

    ORG_CERT=$(ls ./config/AidTechMSP/admincerts/cert.pem)

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--org-admincert --from-file=cert.pem=$ORG_CERT

Find the adminkey and create a secret to hold it

    ORG_KEY=$(ls ./config/AidTechMSP/keystore/*_sk)

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--org-adminkey --from-file=key.pem=$ORG_KEY

### Crypto material

    cd ./config

Create Genesis block and Channel

    configtxgen -profile OrdererGenesis -outputBlock ./genesis.block

    configtxgen -profile MyChannel -channelID mychannel -outputCreateChannelTx ./mychannel.tx

Save them as secrets

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--genesis --from-file=genesis.block

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--channel --from-file=mychannel.tx

    cd ..

### Kafka for Ordering service

Install Kafka chart (use special values to ensure 4 Kafka brokers and that Kafka messages don't disappear)

    helm install incubator/kafka -n kafka-hlf --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/kafka-hlf_values.yaml

### Fabric Orderer

Install orderers

    export NUM=1

    helm install stable/hlf-ord -n ord${NUM} --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/ord${NUM}_values.yaml

Register orderer with CA

    ORD_SECRET=$(kubectl get secret -n blockchain ord${NUM}-hlf-ord -o jsonpath="{.data.CA_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client register --id.name ord${NUM} --id.secret $ORD_SECRET --id.type orderer

Get logs from orderer to check it's actually started

    ORD_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-ord,release=ord${NUM}" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $ORD_POD | grep 'completeInitialization'

> Repeat all above steps for Orderer 2, etc.

### Fabric Peer

Install CouchDB chart

    export NUM=1

    helm install stable/hlf-couchdb -n cdb-peer${NUM} --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/cdb-peer${NUM}_values.yaml

Check that CouchDB is running

    CDB_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-couchdb,release=cdb-peer${NUM}" -o jsonpath="{.items[*].metadata.name}")

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $CDB_POD | grep 'Apache CouchDB has started on'

Install Peer

    helm install stable/hlf-peer -n peer${NUM} --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/peer${NUM}_values.yaml

Register peer with CA

    PEER_SECRET=$(kubectl get secret -n blockchain peer${NUM}-hlf-peer -o jsonpath="{.data.CA_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client register --id.name peer${NUM} --id.secret $PEER_SECRET --id.type peer

Check that Peer is running

    PEER_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-peer,release=peer${NUM}" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $PEER_POD | grep 'Starting peer'

> Repeat all above steps for Peer 2, etc.

Create channel (do this only once in Peer 1)

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $PEER_POD -- peer channel create -o ord1-hlf-ord.blockchain.svc.cluster.local:7050 -c mychannel -f /hl_config/channel/mychannel.tx

Fetch and join channel

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $PEER_POD -- peer channel fetch config /var/hyperledger/mychannel.block -c mychannel -o ord1-hlf-ord.blockchain.svc.cluster.local:7050

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $PEER_POD -- bash -c 'CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=$ADMIN_MSP_PATH peer channel join -b /var/hyperledger/mychannel.block'

> Repeat above 2 commands (`fetch` & `join`) for Peer 2, etc.

Check which channels the peer has joined:

    kubectl exec $PEER_POD -n blockchain -- peer channel list

## Deleting

Delete helm deployments

    helm delete --purge ca-pg ca kafka-hlf ord1 ord2 cdb-peer1 peer1 cdb-peer2 peer2

Delete stateful sets (in case Helm does not fully delete them)

    kubectl delete statefulset -n blockchain kafka-log kafka-hlf-zookeeper kafka-hlf

Delete Persistent Volume Claims

    kubectl delete pvc -n blockchain ca-pg-postgresql data-kafka-hlf-zookeeper-0 data-kafka-hlf-zookeeper-1 data-kafka-hlf-zookeeper-2 datadir-kafka-hlf-0 datadir-kafka-hlf-1 datadir-kafka-hlf-2 datadir-kafka-hlf-3

Delete secrets on K8S

    kubectl delete secret -n blockchain hlf--org-admincert  hlf--org-adminkey hlf--channel hlf--genesis

Delete crypto material

    rm -rf ./config/*MSP ./config/genesis.block ./config/mychannel.tx

Commit message:

Update customisation information to mention Storage Class
Signed-off-by: Alejandro Vicente Grabovetsky <sasha@aid.technology>

README.md, after:

# Webinar deployment

## Before starting

### Pre-requisites

Before running this tutorial you will need:

1) A Kubernetes (K8S) cluster (you can get free credits to deploy a managed K8S cluster on AWS, GCP, Azure, etc)
2) Helm (and Tiller) installed on K8S
3) An `nginx-ingress` installation (using the Helm chart)
4) A `cert-manager` installation (using the Helm chart)
5) A domain name for your components (e.g. the Certificate Authority), connected to your `nginx-ingress` IP address - you can obtain one for free or $1.00 at many Domain Name Registrars.

#### NGINX Ingress controller

You can install the ingress controller by running this command:

    helm install stable/nginx-ingress -n nginx-ingress --namespace ingress-controller

#### Certificate manager

You can install the certificate manager, to ensure you can auto-generate the TLS certificates

    helm install stable/cert-manager -n cert-manager --namespace cert-manager

Then we need to add the Staging and Production cluster issuers

    kubectl create -f ./extra/certManagerCI_staging.yaml

    kubectl create -f ./extra/certManagerCI_production.yaml

### Customisation

#### Domain Name

Currently, the `helm_values` files for the CA reference the following CA Domain Name: `ca.lf.aidtech-test.xyz` in the files:

* `/helm_values/ca_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/ord1_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/ord2_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/peer1_values.yaml`
* `/helm_values/peer2_values.yaml`

Since you won't have access to this, you should set this domain name to one you've obtained/purchased, and which is pointing to the `nginx-ingress` IP address.

#### Storage

The Helm values in this repository assume an Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) deployment, hence you will see the `managed-premium` storage class.

You may wish to change this to default or to another type of storage class if you are using AWS, GCP or a local cluster.

## Creating

### Fabric CA

Install the PostgeSQL chart

    helm install stable/postgresql -n ca-pg --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/ca-pg_values.yaml

Install the Fabric CA chart (it automatically gets the login information from the PostgreSQL chart secret)

    helm install stable/hlf-ca -n ca --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/ca_values.yaml

Get pod for CA release

    CA_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-ca,release=ca" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

Check if server is ready

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $CA_POD | grep "Listening on"

Check that we don't have a certificate

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- cat /var/hyperledger/fabric-ca/msp/signcerts/cert.pem

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- bash -c 'fabric-ca-client enroll -d -u http://$CA_ADMIN:$CA_PASSWORD@$SERVICE_DNS:7054'

Check that ingress works correctly

    CA_INGRESS=$(kubectl get ingress -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-ca,release=ca" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].spec.rules[0].host}")

    curl https://$CA_INGRESS/cainfo

    FABRIC_CA_CLIENT_HOME=./config fabric-ca-client getcacert -u https://$CA_INGRESS -M ./AidTechMSP

Get identity of org-admin

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client identity list --id org-admin

Register Organisation admin if the previous command did not work

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client register --id.name org-admin --id.secret OrgAdm1nPW --id.attrs 'admin=true:ecert'

Enroll the Organisation Admin identity

    FABRIC_CA_CLIENT_HOME=./config fabric-ca-client enroll -u https://org-admin:OrgAdm1nPW@$CA_INGRESS -M ./AidTechMSP

Copy the signcerts to admincerts

    mkdir -p ./config/AidTechMSP/admincerts

    cp ./config/AidTechMSP/signcerts/* ./config/AidTechMSP/admincerts

Create a secret to hold the admincert

    ORG_CERT=$(ls ./config/AidTechMSP/admincerts/cert.pem)

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--org-admincert --from-file=cert.pem=$ORG_CERT

Find the adminkey and create a secret to hold it

    ORG_KEY=$(ls ./config/AidTechMSP/keystore/*_sk)

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--org-adminkey --from-file=key.pem=$ORG_KEY

### Crypto material

    cd ./config

Create Genesis block and Channel

    configtxgen -profile OrdererGenesis -outputBlock ./genesis.block

    configtxgen -profile MyChannel -channelID mychannel -outputCreateChannelTx ./mychannel.tx

Save them as secrets

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--genesis --from-file=genesis.block

    kubectl create secret generic -n blockchain hlf--channel --from-file=mychannel.tx

    cd ..

### Kafka for Ordering service

Install Kafka chart (use special values to ensure 4 Kafka brokers and that Kafka messages don't disappear)

    helm install incubator/kafka -n kafka-hlf --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/kafka-hlf_values.yaml

### Fabric Orderer

Install orderers

    export NUM=1

    helm install stable/hlf-ord -n ord${NUM} --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/ord${NUM}_values.yaml

Register orderer with CA

    ORD_SECRET=$(kubectl get secret -n blockchain ord${NUM}-hlf-ord -o jsonpath="{.data.CA_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client register --id.name ord${NUM} --id.secret $ORD_SECRET --id.type orderer

Get logs from orderer to check it's actually started

    ORD_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-ord,release=ord${NUM}" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $ORD_POD | grep 'completeInitialization'

> Repeat all above steps for Orderer 2, etc.

### Fabric Peer

Install CouchDB chart

    export NUM=1

    helm install stable/hlf-couchdb -n cdb-peer${NUM} --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/cdb-peer${NUM}_values.yaml

Check that CouchDB is running

    CDB_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-couchdb,release=cdb-peer${NUM}" -o jsonpath="{.items[*].metadata.name}")

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $CDB_POD | grep 'Apache CouchDB has started on'

Install Peer

    helm install stable/hlf-peer -n peer${NUM} --namespace blockchain -f ./helm_values/peer${NUM}_values.yaml

Register peer with CA

    PEER_SECRET=$(kubectl get secret -n blockchain peer${NUM}-hlf-peer -o jsonpath="{.data.CA_PASSWORD}" | base64 --decode)

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $CA_POD -- fabric-ca-client register --id.name peer${NUM} --id.secret $PEER_SECRET --id.type peer

Check that Peer is running

    PEER_POD=$(kubectl get pods -n blockchain -l "app=hlf-peer,release=peer${NUM}" -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")

    kubectl logs -n blockchain $PEER_POD | grep 'Starting peer'

> Repeat all above steps for Peer 2, etc.

Create channel (do this only once in Peer 1)

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $PEER_POD -- peer channel create -o ord1-hlf-ord.blockchain.svc.cluster.local:7050 -c mychannel -f /hl_config/channel/mychannel.tx

Fetch and join channel

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $PEER_POD -- peer channel fetch config /var/hyperledger/mychannel.block -c mychannel -o ord1-hlf-ord.blockchain.svc.cluster.local:7050

    kubectl exec -n blockchain $PEER_POD -- bash -c 'CORE_PEER_MSPCONFIGPATH=$ADMIN_MSP_PATH peer channel join -b /var/hyperledger/mychannel.block'

> Repeat above 2 commands (`fetch` & `join`) for Peer 2, etc.

Check which channels the peer has joined:

    kubectl exec $PEER_POD -n blockchain -- peer channel list

## Deleting

Delete helm deployments

    helm delete --purge ca-pg ca kafka-hlf ord1 ord2 cdb-peer1 peer1 cdb-peer2 peer2

Delete stateful sets (in case Helm does not fully delete them)

    kubectl delete statefulset -n blockchain kafka-log kafka-hlf-zookeeper kafka-hlf

Delete Persistent Volume Claims

    kubectl delete pvc -n blockchain ca-pg-postgresql data-kafka-hlf-zookeeper-0 data-kafka-hlf-zookeeper-1 data-kafka-hlf-zookeeper-2 datadir-kafka-hlf-0 datadir-kafka-hlf-1 datadir-kafka-hlf-2 datadir-kafka-hlf-3

Delete secrets on K8S

    kubectl delete secret -n blockchain hlf--org-admincert  hlf--org-adminkey hlf--channel hlf--genesis

Delete crypto material

    rm -rf ./config/*MSP ./config/genesis.block ./config/mychannel.tx
